# 42_Push_Swap_Tester
A Tester for the 42 push_swap Project


### Purpose:
- To provide a means of conducting randomized tests for any number of integers arguments.
- Provide an evaluation tester that will conduct the tests that should be done in an evaluation to test for all possible errors and conduct speed tests for 3, 5, 100 and 500 integer arguments.


### Which File to Run:
Both `slow.sh` and `fast.sh` files can be used to run this Tester, with the only major difference being `fast.sh` should be slightly faster than the `slow.sh`
- If your OS can use the bash **timeout** and **xargs -a** functions, then run `fast.sh` file.
- Otherwise run the `slow.sh` file, which uses different methods to replicate the uses of **timeout** and **xargs -a**.  


### How to Run:
- For this section, `run.sh` will represent how you can use both `slow.sh` and `fast.sh`, so just replace `run.sh` with either file name to execute them.
1. Change the ***path_locale*** variable in the `run.sh` file to point to the push_swap directory being tested, making sure the ***path_locale*** variable has a **/** character at the end.
2. Change the ***bonus*** variable in the `run.sh` file to **1** if the **Bonus** is being tested, **0** if **Bonus** is not being tested.
3. Change the ***system*** variable in the `run.sh` file to either **linux** or **mac**, depending on what OS the test is being run on, so the correct 42 checker can be used.
4. The Tester can be Ran in Terminal by:
   - `bash run.sh` will run all tests that should be conducted in an evaluation.
   - `bash run.sh *` will run 100 tests for * integer arguments, like `bash run.sh 10` will run 100 tests for 10 integer arguments. Making * equal to 1, 2, 3 or 5 will run the corresponding evaluation test for that number of integer arguments.
5. After the Tester has finished running, the extra files created by `run.sh` can be deleted by running `bash clean.sh` in Terminal.


### Checking Outputs and Inputs on Errors or otherwise:
The inputs / outputs during each test are stored in multiple, seperate files, so when an error occurs, checking these files will show the situation that occured. These Files will be Generated whilst running the Tester.  
  
The **Output** files are:
- `output.txt`: Contains the output printed to *stdout* by the tested `push_swap` executable.
- `error.txt`: Contains the output printed to *strerr* by the tested `push_swap` executable.
- `check.txt`: Contains the output printed to *stdout* by the `checker_mac` / `checker_linux` executable, given by 42.
- `check_error.txt`: Contains the output printed to *stderr* by the `checker_mac` / `checker_linux` executable, given by 42.
- `bonus.txt`: Contains the output printed to *stdout* by the tested `checker` executable, for the bonus of push_swap.
- `bonus_error.txt`: Contains the output printed to *stderr* by the tested `checker` executable, for the bonus of push_swap.  
  
The **Input** can be found:
- Printed to terminal.
- Or found in the `*.txt` where * stands for the current number of integer arguments being tested (for example, 100 argument test input can be found in 100.txt)


### Uses for Each File:
- `checker_linux` and `checker_mac` are the given 42 checker executables for the push_swap project at the time of updating this repository. Feel free to replace them with up-to-date versions once you clone this directory.
- `fast.sh` and `slow.sh` are the testing scripts where all the tests are executed.
- `random.c` is the RNG Generation script which is used by `fast.sh` and `slow.sh`.
- `clean.sh` can clean up all the extra files generated by `fast.sh` and `slow.sh`, just for convenience.
- `Combinations_of_5.txt` contains all possible combinations for 5 integer numbers.

### Credits:
- Got the main RNG Generator function from the 1st Stack Overflow answer [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/23285326/non-repeating-random-number-generator-in-c)
- Got Pearl script which replicates **timeout** function for the `slow.sh` file from the 2nd Stack Overflow answer [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/3504945/timeout-command-on-mac-os-x)
